IaC = Infrastructure as Code


On-Prem IaC :
    On-prem IaC has the following benefits:
        Allows full control of the IaC pipeline
        The IaC pipeline can be fully customised for your exact needs
        Data protection and regulation is easier to perform as the IaC pipeline does not host resources on third-party systems
        While the initial investment cost of the infrastructure is high, there are no monthly fees for hosting the IaC pipeline
        It is often easier to do small deployments
    On-prem IaC has the following drawbacks:
        As you are hosting your own IaC pipeline, you are fully responsible for its security and configuration
        Scalability of deployments is not as flexible as cloud-based IaC, which can lead to either not having sufficient resources for the deployment or an over-investment in resources
        The initial investment for on-prem IaC is significantly higher than cloud-based IaC


An IaC approach can make it possible to have a reliable infrastructure that is scalable, 
versionable, and repeatable.


It supports key concepts :
    Continuous Integration :
        Infrastructure development to be a collaborative process with versioning 
        in place.
    Continuous Deployment :
        Allowing for the automation of infrastructure deployment across multiple 
        environments consistently.

Declarative vs. Imperative :
    Declarative :
        It focuses on the what rather than the how.
        This involves declaring an explicit desired state for your infrastructure.
        A state file is kept to ensure your infrastructure’s current state matches the desired state.
    Imperative :
        This approach involves defining specific commands to be run to achieve the desired state

Agent-based vs. Agentless :
    Agent-based :
        Some agent-based IaC tools: Puppet, Chef, and Saltstack.
    Agentless :
        Agentless IaC tools: Terraform, AWS CloudFormation, Pulumi and Ansible.

Immutable vs. Mutable Infrastructure :
    Immutable :
        Updates are made on a separate new infra and they deployed.
        ( update an application from version 1 to version 2 )
    Mutable :
        Updates are made in place 
        ( a critical database system that requires regular maintenance updates and patching )
    
Provisioning vs. Configuration Management :
    Provisioning :
        Terraform, AWS CloudFormation, Google Cloud Deployment Manager, Pulumi
    Configuration management :
        Ansible, Chef, Puppet, Saltstack

The Continual (Best Practice) Phases :
    (ensure best practices throughout infrastructure development and management)
    Version Control
    Collaboration
    Monitoring/Maintenance
    Rollback
    Review + Change

The Repeatable (Infra Creation + Config) Phases :
    (provide guidance during the development or configuration of an infrastructure)
    Design
    Define
    Test
    Provision 
    Configure


Virtualisation Levels :
    Containerisation
    Hypervisor

Use of Virtualisation in IaC :
    Scalability
    Resource Isolation
    Testing / Snapshots / Rollbacks
    Templates
    Multi-tenancy
    Portability





